Alright, now we're gonna be working on Pagination,
so what I want you to do, is make at least nine
different items in here, and then I'll meet you
back here when you've got your nine items.
Alright, I've added a couple now,
I just want to show you one little problem
that we're gonna be running into.
If you click on your homepage after you've added something,
you might not see all of the items that you've added.
I just added the denim here,
and it's not showing up, until I actually refresh,
and that's actually a problem because the cache
is caching all of the items, and when we go back
to the homepage, it goes, oh, I already have that query.
So, we're gonna need to look at how we can
actually invalidate that query,
and there's a couple of options that we can do.
Also, there's gonna be some stuff
coming to Apollo fairly soon, and I'll make sure
to update these videos once they actually are in Apollo,
because right now, it's a bit of a problem.
Especially as we get in to Pagination.
But, I've got my nine items here,
let's go ahead and start making it.
We're gonna go into the front end here,
and you're making new component
called Pagination with a capital P.
Let's go ahead and we'll code it manually,
now import react from react, import our Pagination
styles from the styles folder,
and let's just make it a stateless functional component.
Export it.
Now, let's go into our items component,
and import our Pagination, and we can just stick
that Pagination component wherever
it is that we want to put it.
So, let's do it right above the query,
and let's do one right below the query,
so we can get one above and below, and there we go.
High on the Pagination, and we've got another one
showing up on the bottom.
Good, now there's a couple things
we actually need in order to make our Pagination.
We need to know how many items are in the database of total,
how many items are on the current page,
how many items are we displaying per page,
and we could do that right now because we're displaying
them all on one page, but if this were to have
a thousand items, we don't want to write a query
that's going to fetch one thousand items
or even something simple, like fetch the ID's
of one thousand items, as that would be too large,
and that's where prizma connections come in.
Now, let's go back to our back end here,
and let's look at the generated esquema
that comes out, and just search for connection.
If we look at our queries here,
you'll see that we really only have two types.
We have users and user, and item and items,
so that's going to grab both of our types.
However, each of them also have an additional query,
called the user connection or the item connection,
and that's going to return to us aggregate data
about the actual data itself, and specifically,
we need to know how many items are available to us.
That's what we need to do in our own esquema here,
we need to go into our schematic GraphQL on the backend,
and under our query, we're going to type
our items connection, and that is only going to take
one argument item where input.
You could also pass them order by, first, last, and skip
in this case, but we only care about the where in this case,
and that's going to return in item connection.
That is required.
Good, now let's go into our resolvers,
so query.js, and we're just going to duplicate this
and make it items connection, and we're gonna forward that
directly to the database as well,
and the way we can test if this has worked,
is we can open up our local API and try to connect to it.
So, let's go through local host four, four, four, four.
We'll just write a quick query here,
and we'll just call that query data about items,
and we're going to use our item,
there it is, there's our items connection query,
we don't need to necessarily pass a where right now,
we can just say items connection, and returning from that,
we can return a couple things.
The edges, the page info, or the aggregate.
The edges and the page info, that's used for when
you're sort of doing infinite scroll.
Let's say you're on Pinterest and you loaded in 20 items,
and what you could do, is that's going to tell you
what the last item was, and then when you do a second query,
you can tell it, give me the items that are past this.
Now, we're doing traditional Pagination here,
instead of that sort of infinite scroll here,
so we're not going to be using edges or page info.
In this one, we're going to be using aggregate,
and doing the calculations ourself.
From the aggregate, the only thing we can query
of that is the count.
Now, if I were to run it, it will run,
and it tells us that we have nine items in our database.
If you were to change this, you could also use
this on a search page that you're Paginating.
You could say where the title contains, let's say shoes,
run it, nothing comes back.
What are some of the items that we have?
Pullover.
Where the title contains pullover, and it gives us one item.
So, you see how you could pass possible arguments to this.
This would also be extremely helpful
if you had categories and you needed to Paginate things
that were just based on the category.
Let's go up into our front end now,
now that it's all working, and go into our Pagination
and start working on our query.
We're only going to get the actual linking
working right now.
I just want to change the URL by clicking
all of these numbers, and then we're gonna circle back
and actually modify the items component,
which is showing all of them right now,
and we want to be able to show
just however many that we want.
So, we'll import GQL from GraphQL tools,
and we'll make a query, and we'll write our query,
and call that Pagination query,
and we'll go ahead and write our query
called Pagination query.
We actually don't need to pass at anything,
so I put parentheses there, you don't need it,
because if you look at our backend here,
you see our items connection where item input,
we actually don't need that, cause we just care about
how many items are in the database,
the current page, the number per page,
and all that other information
is either gonna be pulled from settings,
from the URL, or calculated when we render the component,
so we have our Pagination query here,
we are going to have the items connection,
that's our query name, and from that we are going to return
the aggregate, and that is going to give us the count.
Now, we can use a query component to pull that in.
Go in here, give ourselves a query component,
query will be Pagination query,
and inside of that, we will get our data,
our loading, and our error.
From that, let's just return.
Hi, I'm the Pagination.
It's broken, let's see what it is.
I've got a red underline.
GraphQL tools should be listed in the dependencies.
No, it's not GraphQL tools, it's GraphQL tag,
and that should go down here.
My question is, are we able to render out
the data to itemsconnection.aggregate.count?
There I go.
Nine, it tells us we have nine items that are on there,
so that means we are in good shape.
Going to change this from a implicit return
to an explicit return, so what we're going to do here
is put some curly brackets around it.
Down here, we're gonna type return,
and let's just say if loading turn loading.
Just need to have some sort of if statement,
so my prettier doesn't get it.
It looks like it's working well.
Now we need a couple pieces of information.
First, we need to figure out how many pages
are there going to be based on our per page,
so if you open up the config.js,
you'll see that we have this little number four right here,
so I like to put that in a separate file
so that if I ever change Pagination,
it will just ripple through the entire application.
So, we're gonna import that.
Import per page from...
First I'm gonna put this count
in it's own variable, just called count.
And here, we'll just say const count is equal to that.
Then we'll make a new variable called pages
is equal to count, divided by per page,
and let's just start writing some information here.
Say you are on page, this is page one of pages.
It says, you are on page one of two point two five.
Why?
That's cause I have nine items.
Obviously, we can't deal with that,
so what we can do is wrap that in a math.seal.
Seal, ah, just joking.
Ceil, it's not the animal.
Here we go, page on of three, looking good.
Now, how do we get the actual current page?
Well, let's actually go to our items,
and it's going to look a little bit
something like this, page equals two.
Now, that page equals two is going to be coming in
via the items page as a prop, so we need to pass it down.
Let's go to our items page, and oh,
it's actually not done in our items.
Actually, we gotta rename that
to items real quick, it's not home.
But, it's in our index.js,
that's where we're actually doing the heavy lifting,
right here, and we have it via our prop,
so we are going to say page is equal to props.query.page,
and then our Pagination component should
then have access to it if we inspect it.
Check out our react dev tools.
Search for Pagination, doesn't look like we have access
to it, and that is because I haven't passed it down yet.
So, I passed it from the page down to items,
and then we need to go into items and pass it down
to Pagination, so we'll grab both instances,
and just say page is equal to this.props.page.
And then, does it show up here?
There we go.
Page is showing up, it is showing up as a string though,
that's gonna be a problem for us.
So, what we'll do in our index, is before we pass it,
we'll wrap it in a parseFloat.
Give it a refresh, and you see it's passed as a number now,
there's no quotes around that.
Good, so we can go into...
Back to our Pagination and replace that with,
we can say this.props.page.
Nope, it's not this.props, it's just props.page.
There we go, it's being passed in.
However, if we go to just forward slash items,
we get naan, so what we'll need to do here,
is back to our index such as, and pass either that or one,
and that will fall back to one if it's on the first page.
Now, if I go to page three,
it will say page three of three, good.
Let's actually get some links working
so I don't have to manually type it into the URL bar.
Back to our Pagination here.
I actually wanna bring these Pagination styles
down inside of the return, cause I only wanna display
them when the Pagination is actually shown.
Then, inside of that, we can,
let's actually update the title bar,
just like we did on the last one.
Import head from next head,
and here we can say head, title, sick fits.
Flicks?
Fits, page, page of pages.
It's not showing up, cause let's make a quick variable,
const page equals props.page.
There we go, you see that the URL bar is now showing up.
Maybe put a little M dash in between that.
Let's get ourselves some links.
We'll import the link from next link,
and of course, we wanna move these
above our relative imports.
I always like to do my MPM imports,
then my relative imports, then we'll go down here,
above the paragraph tag, we'll give ourselves a link tag.
That link tag always takes a HREF, which is an object.
The path name is going to be items,
and the query is going to be page,
and this is going to be the page, minus one.
If we're on page two, it's going to be page one,
if we're on page three, it's gonna be page two.
We'll look at how we can disable that in just a second.
Then, inside of there, you want an empty link
with no HREF on it, and then that will just say prev.
Let's take a look at how that looks.
Here we go, got our prev showing up.
Now, a couple things here.
First, I want you to go ahead and put a pre-fetch
attribute on your link, and what that's gonna do,
is in production, it's gonna go off and pre-render
both the previous and the forward looking page,
so that you are always pre-loading the next
and the previous one, so that when you hit your Pagination,
it's going to be absolutely instant.
This pre-fetch does not work in development mode,
so it might be a little bit slow for us,
but it will always work in production mode
to pre-load other pages.
You can put this pre-fetch attribute on any of your links,
and it'll make your website just so much snappier
and it's just such a nice little
performance boost that you have.
This link here needs a class name,
so class name is equal to prev.
And then, we will give it a disable attribute.
If we're on the first page, then obviously,
we don't want to give a previous one,
so we'll say aria dash disabled,
is equal to the current page, is less or equal to one.
So, now it's working.
If I were to go onto page one, you see it's disabled,
cause obviously, there's no page zero.
I don't want to go into it.
Then, we have our paragraph,
tells us how many pages there are.
Let's give ourselves another paragraph
that says, count items total,
so it will tell us how many items we have.
So, previous, page one of three,
nine items total, and then we can just take this link here,
paste it below, and we can say that it is the page plus one.
It's going to be disabled if the current page
is greater or equal to the number of pages,
and this will just say next.
That's a little text expander snip that I have
if I do two angle brackets ever, it'll automatically
make it an arrow, cause I use that so often.
Give it a save, and now it seems to be working.
If I click on next, it's going to load up page two.
You see our previous are kicking in.
Next is gonna load page three, then it's disabled,
doesn't work, so I can go back and forth,
back and forth, next, next, next, prev, prev, previous,
and these items get updated as we go.
What's not happening, is that the actual items
on the page aren't updating themselves,
so that's a bit of a problem.
In the next video, we are going to tackle
how do we modify this items component
to actually take the page number into account.